> The Venafi Ecosystem (“Ecosystem”) is the innovation engine that futureproofs Customer success. Ecosystem innovation is the identification and development of new design patterns, solving problems in new ways, and building new business models – all of which makes it easier, faster, consistent, and reliable for Customers to use Machine Identity Management. The Ecosystem prioritizes outcomes for the Design Customer of the Future.

> Venafi is the organizer and a participant in the Ecosystem where the majority of solutions are built by external Developers and Customers. Developers are startups (e.g. Akeyless), consultancies (e.g. OpenCredo), leading technologies (e.g. CyberArk), and individuals (e.g. Siggi Skulason) that create solutions that perform or make use of Machine Identity Management.  Innovation occurs naturally with the most diverse range of Developers building solutions that benefit Venafi Customers. The outcome is that Customers have the confidence to deliver their Machine Identity Management strategy today and into the future. 

> A clear measure of Customer confidence is consistent, increasing use of Ecosystem-developed solutions. This drives a secondary measure: more Developers build more solutions for Venafi Customers, increasing the diversity in terms of Developers and offerings. Each year at least 20 Developers come to Venafi to join the Ecosystem and build for Venafi. All of this makes it easier and faster for Venafi to recruit new Developers to the Ecosystem. And thirdly: more Developers are educating on the need and correct design pattern for Machine Identity Management. 